success in football on the offensive
side of the ball comes from running the
ball well success on defense to the
contrary comes from stopping the run to
be an effective defense your scheme must
be designed to stop the run we will be
discussing today the run adjustments to
the 34 gap attack defense I'm Rick cash
the head football coach and defensive
coordinator at mountain vista high
school and this is what we'll be
discussing today 34 gap attack defense
run adjustments
the 34 gap attack defense run
adjustments brick cash head football
coach and defensive coordinator mountain
vista high school Highlands Ranch
Colorado rationale why run the 34 gap
attack defense especially in run
situations you've only got three guys on
the line of scrimmage some people
consider that risky well there are
really multiple scheme options when it
comes to defensive football essentially
though there's two styles of defense
there's gap control and pressure or gap
attack defense gap control essentially
means I'm going to hit and read I'm
going to try to find where the ball is
going and get there a pressure or gap
attack defense means I'm going to get
upfield and find the ball behind the
offensive lineman or from the heel line
the one thing that you need to consider
is not to hold your players accountable
for what your scheme won't support in a
run defense situation if I'm a gap
attack defense I have to be prepared for
the fact that we're going to give up
some big plays occasionally as the
offense runs underneath are pressuring
attacking stop however on the other end
of that I'm going to get a lot more big
plays and a lot more tackles in the
backfield if we attack that gap and get
upfield the second thing to consider is
whether you want to run an otter and
even front and again this comes back to
your personnel do you have strong line
or do you have strong linebackers in our
particular situation every place I've
been we've always had more kids who can
run and hit more linebacker types than
defensive lineman if you have big strong
defensive lineman perhaps an even front
would be better for you in our
particular situation we prefer the odd
front also especially in a run situation
where timing is critical pressuring the
snap exchange can be a very important
factor in your defensive pressure and a
34 obviously we're going to have a nose
guard pressuring that defensive are that
offensive center with a defensive
personnel right on his nose is going to
be a great situation